Okay so moving on we're now going to tackle our database part of our API.
A really important part is that we need to be storing our to do somewhere and retrieving them and updating
them blah blah blah.
All in the database itself.
So we could use postscripts we could use my as well.
We're going to use Mongo though and the main reason for that is that it's a really popular combination
with Express and node as well as with react but also because there's a really nice library called mongoose
that we're going to use that will make our life a lot easier as well to help connect our node and express
to the Mongo database and talk communicate between the two.
But before we go anywhere we have to install Mongo which even on cloud nine which makes installing things
generally much easier.
It's still kind of a pain.
So what I've done is written down all the commands.
There's five different commands that we need.
Step by step to install Mongo.
And I've also included these as a resource with this video so I recommend you copy and paste because
some of them like this line.
I wouldn't recommend that you type this out yourself.
I cannot remember it for the life of me which is why I have it written here so I can reference it.
So what we're going to do is basically stop our server down here and actually I'm going to open up a
new not a file a new terminal.
There we go.
And in this terminal I'm just going to run this pseudo apps get.
Which is going to go fetch the Mongo D-B code might take a moment and if it does we'll fast forward.
And that took about 30 seconds for me.
The next thing I'm going to do is the simplest command which is to make a new directory called data.
It doesn't have to be called data but it does need to match whatever you specify the database path as
here.
Data is the standard name so I would recommend doing that.
So that just makes us a new folder called data where our files are Mongo files will be saved.
The next command will come back to you in just a second.
This is to install mongoose.
You could do it now but I'm going to wait.
When you come down here and copy this monster of a line paste that in.
And remember this needs to match whatever the path is to your data folder or whatever you ended up calling
it.
And finally my favorite chmod Shimada command.
And so what we need to do I actually add this down here is execute Man-God which is our Mangu daemon
which is basically the background process that handles everything for us because Mongo starts up a server
that we need to connect to.
So if we run this make sure in that same directory where you started we should see this server startup.
This is our database server.
This is mangu.
So leave this tab.
It's my recommendation always leave it open.
It's not a problem if you close it but just make sure if you have problems connected to Mongo that you
restart the process.
And we can also connect to that server using the Mongo Seelye and you should you know we can type help.
We're not going to really go through very much you could do show DVRs.
We'll leave it at that.
But once we actually add our database and get some data going we will be able to inspect it here.
But we're not going to do that for now.
So we can exit out that perfect.
So you should have Mongo installed if you follow those commands and you're using cloud 9.
I will warn you if you're just doing it on a PC or a Mac it can be a real headache sometimes.
So I recommend you do this if you get stuck.
Don't waste too much energy don't prevent yourself from getting to the re-act content just because Mongo
being frustrating and the last thing we'll do is run NPM install mongoose dash dash save and all that
that will do.
I guess we could put the dash dash safe before Mongar.
It doesn't actually matter what this will do is install mongoose which is our library package that will
connect Mongo which has nothing to do with Node 2.
Our express node application so it acts as sort of a connector pipe to make things easier so that we
can use promises we can use javascript syntax to interact with mangu.
So I'm going to run that in our make sure you're in the same folder as the to do's API so it will save
it into our package.
Jason might take a moment but once it finishes we'll have a new addition here mongers so our app now
has two dependencies Express and mongers.
So in the next video we're going to use mongoose to connect our express app to our Mangu database get
some data going back and forth get the two talking.
And then from there.
We'll define our next couple of routes that have to do with tatoos and we'll be well on our way to building
an API.